# DirectBot2.1
DirectBot2.1 (a.k.a. DirectBot Remastered) is a modified, more object-oriented Node.js Discord bot.

# About
DirectBot2.1 uses JavaScript classes (ES6 standard) and [Discord.js](https://github.com/hydrabolt/discord.js) for an easier, more organized way of implementing custom commands. (Note: Discord.js Commando is NOT used!) While, right now, it's definitely not the cleanest code in the whole galaxy, it shouldn't be too hard to work with and clean up if necessary. It also allows for ease of use with commands restricted to only certain users ("bot administrators"). This is especially useful when you want to have yee ol' eval command accessible to you and your fellow developers. Or who knows? Maybe just for you. You really do need to make some friends.

# Installing
Since this is just a standard Node.js package, all you really have to do is make sure that Discord.js (+other dependencies) are installed .. and obviously Node.js. You must also have a decent internet connection and a decent system (unless you're okay with having a slow, barely functioning bot), but I mean, it works just fine on a decently sized Discord server using just a Raspberry Pi 3B.

# Docker (Linux only)
Running DirectBot in Docker is by far the quickest and easiest way to run DirectBot. Install Docker by running these commands:
```
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com | bash -
sudo usermod -aG $(whoami) docker
```
Make sure to sign out and sign back in (or reboot) so that you don't have to run Docker commands with sudo. Now you want to clone the repo and cd into the folder. Add your token to `start.js` and run this:
```
docker build -t directbot .
```
This should not take very long but if you have a slow connection it could take a while to download the necessary files. When it finishes run this command to start the bot:
```
docker run directbot
```
You should see the bot come online. If you want to run DirectBot in the background then run this instead:
```
docker run -d directbot
```
-- Courtesy of [iComputer7](https://github.com/iComputer7)

# Adding custom commands
So obviously you need to know JavaScript. If you're a TypeScripter, I'm not too sure on the compatibility as I don't use it. I'm good enough at JavaScript that transforming it into a static version of the same language seems very unnecessary.

To start off, you need to append a command to the array of commands. Yes, there is literally just an array of commands. You can laugh at the lazy programming all you want, it works, and it works well enough.

To do so, we will start out like this:
```
Commands.push(
  new Command();
);
```
Commands is the array and you're pushing a new Command (class) to the array.
Next, the parameters are set up like so: `Command( stringName, Function, stringDescription, boolElevated, requireDatabase )`
So the first argument will be a string, the name of the command. The second argument will be the function you will be passing, it can be an arrow function, an anonymous function, or a standard function; you just have to pass the function correctly or it will not work. The third argument will be a string, a description for your help command to provide some context on what the command does. And last, but not least, the most important thing for those sensitive commands that only you and some special others can have access to, a bool that decides whether the command should be restricted to bot administrators or not. Oh wait, I forgot about requireDatabase which is a bool. It just decides whether to only run the command if it has connection to the specified database or run it even if it cannot connect to said database. (Feature is still in development! Use latest stable release if current repository is unstable.) Only the first two arguments are required for the command, the rest will be filled in automatically to avoid errors and a waste of that sweet sweet time of yours. You're welcome, thank me later.

So, putting it all together now:
```
Commands.push(
  new Command('commandnamegoeshere', (message,text)=>{
    // message is the message object generated by Discord.js
    // text is just message.cleanContent
    message.reply('Hi noob');
  }, 'this command does a thing' /* , true, false */);
);
```
With the default everything, except Bot Token because you need that, you should be able to call ++commandnamegoeshere and have the bot message you back "Hi noob" without any issues, disregarding API/system/connection issues.

# Account Token
Just go to [Discord Developers](https://discordapp.com/developers) and register an app. Then make sure you turn it into a Bot User to get your token. Ezpz. Oh, but get this? *You have to be signed in!* Spooky, amirite?

# Database
Okay, this is not required, but basically in the config object at the top of the script, there will be inputs for database information in case you want to add one. 
```
database: {
		dbhost: '',
		dbuser: '',
		dbpass: '',
		dbname: '',
		requireConnection: false
	}
  ```
  requireConnection is just a bool that decides whether or not to allow the script to start up without an active Database connection. This whole database feature is still a work in progress if you haven't read the Custom Commands section. If for some reason, the main repository is not working, go try out the stable version in Releases.
